Connecting to Spark's web UI is a lot like docking boats.
When boats come to a seaport,
it's useful to have various types of ports so
that each type of boat can dock efficiently and safely.
For a cruise ship, you'll need a port for passenger loading.
While a cargo ship would need a port equipped with cranes,
and a personal speed boat would only require a small dock or peer.
As a result, they have different ports with different procedures for docking.
In the same way, it's useful to have several ways to connect data with a machine.
When you transfer private data through a secure shell known as SSH,
you follow a different protocol than when transferring
public HTML data for a webpage using HTTP.
For this reason, you use different ports: port 22 for SSH and port 80 for
HTTP to indicate that you're transferring data using different networking protocols.
These commonly numbered ports follow a convention that engineers agreed upon.
It's like having an agreed upon layout for each seaport in the world.
That way, anyone visiting the city knows where to go even if it's their first time there.
Spark uses several agreed upon ports for sharing information.
Some ports are for machines to communicate with each other and aren't intended for users.
For example, the Spark master uses port 7077 to communicate with the worker nodes,
but you'll never use it.
There are a few common ports that you will use from time to time.
For example, you've already seen that we usually connect to
Jupyter notebooks on port 8888.
Another important port is 4040 which shows active Spark jobs.
But the most useful port for you to memorize is the web
UI for your master node on port 8080.
The web UI on 8080 shows the status of your cluster,
configurations, and the status of any recent jobs.
Now that you're familiar with how Spark uses ports and connects to the Spark UI,
let's take a tour of the UI itself.